Below is the datasheet for the dataset included in this work. For more information on any aspect, feel free to reach out to: "jnwillia (at) cs (dot) cmu (dot) edu"

Questions from the [Datasheets for Datasets](https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.09010) paper, v7. Markdown copied from: [https://github.com/fau-masters-collected-works-cgarbin/datasheet-for-dataset-template.git]

Jump to section:

- [Motivation](#motivation)
- [Composition](#composition)
- [Collection process](#collection-process)
- [Preprocessing/cleaning/labeling](#preprocessingcleaninglabeling)
- [Uses](#uses)
- [Distribution](#distribution)
- [Maintenance](#maintenance)

## Motivation

### For what purpose was the dataset created? 

> This dataset was created for an analysis on the skin-tone differences of people generated by Stable Diffusion when prompting the model in different dialects. This dataset focuses on African American English (AAE) and Mainstream American English (MAE). Each prompt was designed to only differ in terms of a single grammatical construction that is present in AAE, but not MAE.

### Who created the dataset (e.g., which team, research group) and on behalf of which entity (e.g., company, institution, organization)?

### Who funded the creation of the dataset? 

> This work began as and was funded by an internship with Google Research. The work was completed after the internship ended as a part of the PhD dissertation research of the lead author for the accompanying paper.

## Composition

### What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent (e.g., documents, photos, people, countries)?

> The data consists only of a set of csv (comma separated value) files of contrastive prompts in MAE and AAE. 

### How many instances are there in total (of each type, if appropriate)?

> The dataset consists of 607 distinct contrastive prompts. Each prompt uses one of 7 different grammatical constructions present in AAE.  We create gendered copies of each of these 607 prompts, in order to facilitate intersectional analyses based on the gender (Male, Female, Unspecified) bringing the total to 1821 total prompts. We also include a split of the data for each of the individual grammatical constructions using gender neutral descriptions of the subjects.

### Does the dataset contain all possible instances or is it a sample (not necessarily random) of instances from a larger set?

> The dataset is a small sample meant to facilitate analyses into the effects of dialect on image generation models, but can be used for general language models.

### What data does each instance consist of? 

> Each row consists of: 1) An original prompt from a baseline dataset of prompts used in image generation models. 2) An edited prompt in MAE, edited by the dataset's author, to match the necessary format for the contrastive prompting. 3) A prompt, edited by the author, in AAE that uses the minimal change to the MAE prompt to express a specific grammatical construction common to AAE. 4) A label of the grammatical construction expressed, e.g., Null Copula. 5) A label of whether this prompt is MAE (Baseline) or AAE (Counterfactual).

### Is there a label or target associated with each instance?

> This dataset is labeled with the grammatical construction expressed in AAE

### Is any information missing from individual instances?

> No information is missing from individual instances

### Are relationships between individual instances made explicit (e.g., users’ movie ratings, social network links)?

> All information about each instance is included in the labels

### Are there recommended data splits (e.g., training, development/validation, testing)?

> This dataset is not intended to be used to train any models. As such, it does not have train/val/test splits.

### Are there any errors, sources of noise, or redundancies in the dataset?

> The dialect translations are all done by the lead author of this work, who is a native speaker of AAE and MAE. However, language varies across regions. What sounds natural to the author may not for a person from another region.

### Is the dataset self-contained, or does it link to or otherwise rely on external resources (e.g., websites, tweets, other datasets)?

> The dataset is self-contained

### Does the dataset contain data that might be considered confidential (e.g., data that is protected by legal privilege or by doctor-patient confidentiality, data that includes the content of individuals’ non-public communications)?

> The dataset does not include any sensitive information.

### Does the dataset contain data that, if viewed directly, might be offensive, insulting, threatening, or might otherwise cause anxiety?

> The dataset is not expected to contain any information that might be uncomfortable for users.

### Does the dataset relate to people? 

> The dataset does not relate to specific people, only patterns of language.

### Does the dataset identify any subpopulations (e.g., by age, gender)?

> N/A

### Is it possible to identify individuals (i.e., one or more natural persons), either directly or indirectly (i.e., in combination with other data) from the dataset?

> N/A

### Does the dataset contain data that might be considered sensitive in any way (e.g., data that reveals racial or ethnic origins, sexual orientations, religious beliefs, political opinions or union memberships, or locations; financial or health data; biometric or genetic data; forms of government identification, such as social security numbers; criminal history)?

> N/A

## Collection process

### How was the data associated with each instance acquired?

> The author was given access to a random subset of unlabeled prompts to an image generation model, by Google employees while testing the model internally. This work's lead author pruned from this list of over 10,000 prompts in order to find the set that they felt can best express each grammar rule with the fewest changes to the original.

### What mechanisms or procedures were used to collect the data (e.g., hardware apparatus or sensor, manual human curation, software program, software API)?

> After receiving the initial set of over 10,000 prompts, all work was done by hand.

### If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy (e.g., deterministic, probabilistic with specific sampling probabilities)?

> The prompts used here were chosen by hand from the largest set, based on what the lead author felt was easiest to contrast MAE and SAE.

### Who was involved in the data collection process (e.g., students, crowdworkers, contractors) and how were they compensated (e.g., how much were crowdworkers paid)?

> As this work was funded by Google Research during inception, the initial set was provided from anonymized testing data used by Google employees for other purposes.

### Over what timeframe was the data collected?

> The original set of prompts before pruning were stored during 2022 and 2023

### Were any ethical review processes conducted (e.g., by an institutional review board)?

> This work was approved internally by Google Research.

### Does the dataset relate to people?

> The data consists of anonymized prompts given to an image generation model for testing purposes by Google Employees.

### Did you collect the data from the individuals in question directly, or obtain it via third parties or other sources (e.g., websites)?

> We were provided the already anonymized data.

### Were the individuals in question notified about the data collection?

> As the prompts were anonymized from the beginning, there was no mechanism to alert individuals who may or may not have been included in the initial set.

### Did the individuals in question consent to the collection and use of their data?

> As the prompts were anonymized from the beginning, there was no mechanism to alert individuals who may or may not have been included in the initial set.

### If consent was obtained, were the consenting individuals provided with a mechanism to revoke their consent in the future or for certain uses?

> N/A

### Has an analysis of the potential impact of the dataset and its use on data subjects (e.g., a data protection impact analysis) been conducted?

> We do not believe that there will be any impact of the dataset on its subjects. The subjects have never been identified as a part of this work, and as all prompts were edited and curated by hand, any potentially identifying information has been excluded.

### Any other comments?

## Preprocessing/cleaning/labeling

### Was any preprocessing/cleaning/labeling of the data done (e.g., discretization or bucketing, tokenization, part-of-speech tagging, SIFT feature extraction, removal of instances, processing of missing values)?

> All processing and cleaning was done by hand. 

### Was the “raw” data saved in addition to the preprocessed/cleaned/labeled data (e.g., to support unanticipated future uses)?

> We remove all of the original, raw prompts that were not included in this study and only include those that were edited by hand and used in the analysis. For those raw prompts that were included, we provide the raw, unedited prompts as well in order to better show the process of creating this dataset.

### Is the software used to preprocess/clean/label the instances available?

> All processing was done by hand.

### Any other comments?

## Uses

> This dataset is only intended to be used for research analyses into the influence of dialect on language models and image generation models. This dataset, nor the result derived should not be used as part of interventions in existing models.

### Has the dataset been used for any tasks already?

> The dataset has been used for the included research paper.

### Is there a repository that links to any or all papers or systems that use the dataset?

> This datasheet is a part of the repository that includes the data and the companion paper.

### What (other) tasks could the dataset be used for?

> N/A

### Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or the way it was collected and preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that might impact future uses?

> We do not feel that this dataset will impact future uses. It is only a snapshot of the impact on several grammatical constructions in AAE on MAE. 

### Are there tasks for which the dataset should not be used?

> This dataset should not be used as an intervention to encourage changes in image generation or language model output distributions based on dialect. Nor is it intended to be used for training data for language modeling tasks.

## Distribution

### Will the dataset be distributed to third parties outside of the entity (e.g., company, institution, organization) on behalf of which the dataset was created? 

> The dataset here is being made publicly available

### How will the dataset will be distributed (e.g., tarball on website, API, GitHub)?

> This repository is the only intended distribution method for the data

### When will the dataset be distributed?

> N/A

### Will the dataset be distributed under a copyright or other intellectual property (IP) license, and/or under applicable terms of use (ToU)?

> This work is licensed under the MIT License

### Have any third parties imposed IP-based or other restrictions on the data associated with the instances?

> No other parties have given restrictions on the data or its release.

### Do any export controls or other regulatory restrictions apply to the dataset or to individual instances?

> N/A

## Maintenance

### Who is supporting/hosting/maintaining the dataset?

> The lead author of this work is available for questions or additional information for this dataset.

### How can the owner/curator/manager of the dataset be contacted (e.g., email address)?

> jnwillia (at) cs (dot) cmu (dot) edu

### Is there an erratum?

> N/A

### Will the dataset be updated (e.g., to correct labeling errors, add new instances, delete instances)?

> We do not have any intention of updating the dataset as of now

### If the dataset relates to people, are there applicable limits on the retention of the data associated with the instances (e.g., were individuals in question told that their data would be retained for a fixed period of time and then deleted)?

> N/A

### Will older versions of the dataset continue to be supported/hosted/maintained?

> This is the only available version of this dataset.

### If others want to extend/augment/build on/contribute to the dataset, is there a mechanism for them to do so?

> We are not considering building on or extending this dataset. If you choose to, please keep the information in this datasheet in mind. See the included license.